# My first Node JS Application
## Lab instructions + Personal notes
The lab's objective is to write clean and high-quality source code and it's documentation following best practices.

## Use case: Node.js application
1. Start a project
2. Initialize a Node.js package
3. Create a Node.js script
4. Create a web application using the Express package
5. Create a `CHANGELOG.md` file
6. Describe the project in a `README.md` file

## 1. Start a project
One best practice is to choose appropriate names for folders and files.


## 2. Initialize a Node.js package
1. Initialize a Node.js package running this command: 

```bash
npm init -y
```
* npm (Node Package Manager) is a package manager for the JavaScript programming language
* -y flag answers "yes" to all questions asked during the creation process and skips the interactive prompt, generating the package.json file with the default values

2. Run the NPM script:

```bash
npm run test
# or
npm test
```

* By default there is no test to run and this command will exit with code 1, see 'package.json'.

## 3. Create a Node.js script 

Create a file `index.js` and Run the Node.js script in the terminal:

```bash
node index.js
```

Define this command as an NPM script. Modify in the `package.json` file like this:

```json
...
"scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1",
    "start": "node index.js"
  },
...
```
Run the NPM script with the command:

```bash
npm run start
# or
npm start
```

It will do the same as in step 2.

## 4. Create a web application using Express package

1. Install the [Express](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express) package:

```bash
npm install express
```

It will install the package files and their dependencies sourced on GitHub to you project directory inside `node_modules` folder.

* Express is a popular and widely-used framework for building web applications and APIs with Node.js. 

* By running the npm install express command, npm will download and install the latest version of the Express.js framework and add it to the project's dependencies in the package.json file.

```json
...
"dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.17.1"
  }
...  
```
* You can then require the Express.js module in your code and start using its features to build web applications and APIs.

* The package-lock.json file is generated by npm after you run the npm install express command. It contains information about the exact version of each package and its dependencies that have been installed in your project, including the Express.js framework.


2. Modify the `index.js` file with the following content:

```js
const express = require('express')

const app = express()
const port = 3000

app.get('/', (req, res) => {
  res.send('Hello world!')
})

module.exports = app.listen(port, (err) => {
  if (err) throw err
  console.log("Server listening the port " + port)
})
```

3. Run the NPM `start` script like in the previous step.

## 5. Create a `CHANGELOG.md` file
`CHANGELOG.md` is a file that describes the evolution of the project. All notable changes will be documented in this file. 

* Updating this file can be automated by using conventionnal commits and github actions.